3 new ways Ads Advisor is making Google Ads safer and faster
Over the past few months, marketers have been using Ads Advisor, our AI agent in Google Ads, to spark creative ideas, unlock new insights, drive stronger performance and so much more. We're rolling out three new agentic safety features so you can spend less time managing campaigns and more time growing your business.
- Proactive troubleshooting: Flags complex policy violations without prompting and offers personalized guidance to resolve your issue
- 24/7 security monitoring: Strengthens your account’s security using a personalized dashboard and suggestions
- Instant certifications: Transforms weeks of manual paperwork into instant approvals, built with Gemini capabilities
1. Proactive troubleshooting to keep campaigns running
We are introducing Real-Time Policy Reviews to provide instant, in-workflow guidance as you create and edit campaigns. But we know issues can arise at any time, which is why we’re evolving Ads Advisor to act as an end-to-end policy troubleshooter that fixes even the most complex violations. When issues arise, Ads Advisor will proactively scan your account and website to identify the problem, give you a clear path to resolution and then confirm the fix is made before you appeal.
2. 24/7 monitoring to protect your account
A key best practice for maintaining account security is auditing each user in your Google Ads account. This can be a cumbersome and manual process that can take hours depending on the size of your team. To help you move faster and improve security, Ads Advisor will soon monitor your account around the clock and share personalized recommendations, like reviewing flagged domains and dormant users. We’re also introducing a new security insights dashboard to show you how adopting these suggestions bolsters your account protection. For a snapshot of your current status, you can prompt Ads Advisor with “show me my security level.”
We're also bringing passkeys to Google Ads to give you additional protection for your account — removing the hassle of passwords and codes while improving security.
3. Instant certifications to eliminate paperwork
While certifications are vital to maintaining a trusted advertising environment, applying for them has historically been a manual process. Ads Advisor will soon turn weeks of paperwork into instant approvals by proactively determining if your business needs a certificate based on your industry and country. Then it will either grant it automatically or, if more details are needed, help you submit your application in one click. As always, Ads Advisor will ask for approval before taking action in your account.
We're constantly working to make our advertising platforms safer and more efficient. By harnessing the full potential of agentic AI, Ads Advisor provides the foundation for businesses to innovate faster and more securely. And this is just the beginning. Secure your virtual front-row seat to Google Marketing Live for the biggest announcements.
*Note: These new capabilities will launch in Ads Advisor in the coming months. Ads Advisor is available to all English accounts globally. More languages are rolling out soon.