OpenAI has been recognized as a Leader in the Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Enterprise AI Coding Agents. We believe this evaluation reflects our progress in supporting enterprise-scale deployments of Codex, which is used by more than 4 million people each week and companies including Cisco, Datadog, Dell Technologies, and NVIDIA. Since Gartner's evaluation earlier this year, we have significantly improved Codex with the introduction of GPT‑5.5, as well as stronger tool use, faster performance, and deeper support for enterprise software development workflows.
Software development is becoming more agentic. Developers are moving beyond autocomplete to delegating complex tasks to Codex. Codex can understand large codebases, use tools, make changes, run tests, and prepare work for human review. For enterprises, the opportunity is speed with control: helping teams build faster while maintaining the governance, security, and auditability they need.
In the report, Gartner recognized Codex’s strengths across its Ability to Execute and Completeness of Vision. Gartner recognized Codex’s strengths across agentic software development, enterprise governance, sandboxing, and flexible deployment options. Gartner highlighted Codex’s broad developer surface—including the Codex app, IDE extensions, CLI, SDKs, and cloud-based orchestration—as well as enterprise controls such as approval gates, RBAC, customizable policies, OS-level sandboxing, and auditable workspace governance.
We believe these advantages helped make OpenAI the right partner for Cisco, which used Codex to develop the majority of its AI Defense security platform, shortening delivery time from several quarters to weeks. Cisco’s SVP of Products for AI Software and Platform, DJ Sampath, shares how Codex is changing the way Cisco builds software.
In our view, the best coding agents will combine frontier model capabilities with a deeply integrated product experience. That's why we are building Codex to reason through complex tasks, use developer tools, operate in controlled environments, and provide the governance, security, and control organizations need to deploy AI across the software development lifecycle.
“Enterprises are no longer asking only whether AI can write quality code; they are asking how to safely deploy agentic systems at scale as a new operating layer for their businesses. To us, the Gartner recognition reflects the momentum we’re seeing with Codex, now one of OpenAI’s fastest-growing enterprise products, as it expands from coding assistance to broader enterprise workflows.”
—Denise Dresser, CRO, OpenAI
This recognition comes as Codex continues to improve for enterprises, with recent updates including Codex Security and GPT‑5.5‑Cyber, mobile support, Remote SSH for managed development environments, scoped programmatic access tokens and hooks, support for HIPAA-compliant use, Codex on Amazon Bedrock, and expanded deployment support through Codex Labs and GSI partners including Accenture, Capgemini, Cognizant, Infosys, PwC, and TCS.
You can read the Gartner report today. For enterprises ready to try Codex, there’s never been a better time to switch. Until June 12, eligible enterprise accounts can contact our sales team to request two months of free Codex usage for new users, making it easier to bring Codex to more builders across your company.
- Codex
- 2026
Author
Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Enterprise AI Coding Agents, Phillip Walsh, Matt Basier, Keith Holloway, Nitish Tyagi, May 20, 2026.
Gartner and Magic Quadrant are trademarks of Gartner, Inc., and/or its affiliates.
Gartner does not endorse any company, vendor, product or service depicted in its publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s business and technology insights organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this publication, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.