The latest AI news we announced in September 2026
For more than 20 years, we’ve invested in machine learning and AI research, tools, and infrastructure to build products that make everyday life better for more people. Teams across Google are working on ways to unlock AI’s benefits in fields as wide-ranging as healthcare, crisis response, and education. To keep you posted on our progress, we're doing a regular roundup of Google's most recent AI news.
Here’s a look back at some of our AI announcements from September.
September's headline belongs to Gemini 4 Argon, our newest frontier model. Built with advanced reasoning and a 1-million-token output limit, it’s designed to tackle complex challenges — especially in cybersecurity defense. The release capped an active month for Google AI launches that included Gemini 3.8 Flash and 3.8 Flash Cyber. We also introduced expressive voice models with Gemini 3.8 Live, made Googlebook available for pre-order, and brought the Gemini app to Windows. Beyond daily tools, we marked major scientific milestones by mapping human DNA in AlphaGenome Atlas, tracking global methane from space, and launching Project Suncatcher to test machine learning hardware in orbit. And as a nice bonus, we were grateful to see our teams’ work on designing better AI interfaces recognized by Fast Company as the 2026 Design Company of the Year.
Learn about Gemini 4 Argon: our next era of frontier intelligence. Gemini 4 Argon is engineered to bring advanced reasoning to the most difficult of problems. Built with an industry-leading 1-million-token output limit, Argon excels at heavy-duty workloads like coding, cybersecurity defense, and knowledge work like financial research and legal drafting, and autonomous cybersecurity patching. Safely releasing frontier capabilities at this level requires a phased approach, and Argon is currently rolling out to trusted cyber defenders through the Fairwind Program. We’re actively gathering feedback from early testers to iterate on guardrails before expanding availability to developers, enterprises, and consumers.
Get next-gen intelligence for agents and cybersecurity with Gemini 3.8 Flash and 3.8 Flash Cyber. Gemini 3.8 delivers our best reasoning and coding performance yet at the same speed and low cost as 3.7 Flash. Gemini 3.8 Flash provides substantial gains in long-horizon software engineering, multi-step problem solving, and agentic workflows. Alongside it, Gemini 3.8 Flash Cyber equips defenders with frontier-grade autonomous vulnerability discovery and automated code patching — available to trusted organizations through our new Fairwind Program.
Converse naturally with Gemini 3.8 Live and 3.8 Live Extended Thinking. We've launched two fast, natural language audio models: Gemini 3.8 Live for everyday conversation, and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, the top-rated speech-to-speech model for multi-step reasoning without all the lag. Both have rolled for developers in Google AI Studio and Gemini API, and for everyone across Search Live, Gemini Live, and Google Workspace, where you can get things done using your voice in Gmail, Docs, and Keep.
Say hello to Gemini 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS and Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS. Our most expressive text-to-speech models yet let you generate custom voices, direct scene dialogue, and more from simple text prompts. Instead of choosing from a fixed list of static presets, you now get a dynamic creative studio to build voice-first applications and elevate audio experiences, rolling out across products including Gemini Notebook and Google Vids.
Tackle tasks with new Connected Apps in Gemini. We brought more of your favorite apps directly into Gemini, including productivity tools like Airtable, Linear, monday.com, and PandaDoc; creative platforms including Adobe, Picsart, Squarespace, and Webflow; and lifestyle services such as Peloton, SeatGeek, and Experian. Instead of switching between tabs, you can now tackle your tasks all in one place. To get started, head to your Gemini settings and select the apps you want to link.
Create your best tracks yet with Lyria 3.5 in Gemini. From simple text prompts or images, you can now use our most expressive music generation model yet to produce richer arrangements, coherent songs, and personalized audio right in the Gemini app. Lyria 3.5 is available globally in Gemini and across Google AI Studio, Google Flow Music, and Google Vids.
Sharpen your study routine with new Gemini Notebook tools. Now you can transform your study routine in Gemini Notebook with interactive coursework tools and animated video summaries. Master complex topics using custom flashcards, versatile quiz formats, and 60-second Short Video Overviews in over 80 languages. For back-to-school season, eligible college students can also claim a free 12-month Google AI student plan with higher usage limits.
Coordinate family life effortlessly with CC in Google Labs. Google Labs is expanding CC from a personal agent into a collaborative group agent designed to handle household logistics and shared schedules. CC even gets its own email address to coordinate family calendars, track group to-dos, and streamline daily logistics in one spot with built-in privacy controls. CC for groups is now rolling out as an experimental preview in Google Labs.
Learn how AI breakthroughs accelerate science and improve lives. AI is transforming theoretical science into practical, everyday impact. By accelerating life-saving therapies, forecasting natural disasters, and personalizing education, our technology delivers tangible benefits worldwide. Today, Google tools support more than 300 languages spoken by 7 billion people — reaching 86% of the global population. By open-sourcing models like MedGemma and partnering with leading research institutions, we're helping scientists make discoveries faster to improve lives everywhere. Plus, new visualizations of our AI & Economy ATLAS data make it easier to see how AI is reshaping global work, including scientific research.
See how the future of AI computing could be in space. Project Suncatcher will launch its first test satellite with Planet to evaluate how Google TPUs perform under real space conditions. Satellites in low-Earth orbit can access up to eight times more solar power than on Earth, opening up new possibilities for long-term AI infrastructure. Learn questions we’re still exploring in our new four-part video series.
Pre-order Googlebook, the laptop of choice for Android users. Built on Android and paired with desktop foundations from ChromeOS, Googlebook is designed for Gemini Intelligence and engineered to work with your Android phone right out of the box. New on-device AI features like Magic Pointer let you point and ask Gemini about anything on your screen with a quick cursor wiggle, while Rambler smart voice dictation instantly structures verbal brain dumps into organized, shareable notes. With no-code custom widgets and background task processing, Googlebook simplifies your daily workflow so you can get more done effortlessly.
Check out WeatherNext 3, our most advanced and accurate global weather AI model. Our flagship AI weather forecasting model now includes real-time satellite data, hourly refreshes, higher resolution, precise precipitation forecasting, and clean energy variables. Plus, it’s now integrated across Search, Gemini, Maps, Google Maps Platform, and Cloud.
Explore AlphaGenome Atlas: a high-resolution map of human DNA. There are billions of possible mutations in the human genome — far too many to ever test in a lab. So we introduced AlphaGenome Atlas, a database that predicts the effects of every possible single nucleotide variant in the human genome, all 9 billion of them. Designed to require zero coding skills, it’s already accelerating real-world breakthroughs in rare disease research and complex genetics.
Track methane emissions globally from space. We partnered with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory to develop MAPL-EMIT, a deep learning AI model that tracks global methane leaks from space. The model detects 50% more emissions than human experts and has already uncovered over 23,000 previously unmapped plumes, including 24 of the world's 25 largest-emitting landfills. All data is openly available on Google Earth Engine to help climate researchers and operators take faster action
See five amazing visuals of the male fruit fly’s brain map. Scientists at Google, HHMI Janelia, and Cambridge University have built the first complete brain map of an adult male fruit fly, charting over 166,000 neurons and nearly 12,000 distinct cell types with the help of Google AI. By stitching together millions of microscopic images into a navigable 3D model, this research uncovers how sensory cues transform into movement. It’s a breakthrough for neuroscience that brings us closer to understanding how complex brains function.
Learn about the new DeepMind Institute. The DeepMind Institute is a platform for researchers and thinkers from across Google DeepMind, Google, and the wider global research community to work on and publish creative, deeply informed ideas about a world with AGI. With AGI on the horizon, it’s incumbent on the creators of AI technology to sincerely and thoughtfully address its risks — but its transformative impact cannot be steered by technologists alone. DMI serves as a dedicated forum to spur debate, bring together diverse global voices, and build a consensus that ensures AGI benefits everyone.
Access fast help on your PC with the Gemini app for Windows. Now, using the Alt + Space shortcut, you can open Gemini any time over your work to fact-check docs or brainstorm ideas without breaking your stride. In the dedicated workspace, you can delegate multi-step tasks to Gemini Spark, synthesize files across Gmail and Drive, and generate Nano Banana images or Gemini Omni videos — all in one place.