100 things we announced at I/O 2026
This week at Google I/O 2026, we unveiled new models, agents and tools to help you build, search, create, discover, shop and get more done. You can dig into our I/O announcements — including an edited transcript of Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s remarks from the stage. And for a TL;DR (of sorts), keep scrolling for our annual list of 100 highlights from the event.
Create and build with our most advanced models
Gemini 3.5
1. We launched Gemini 3.5 Flash: the first in our latest series of models combining frontier intelligence with action.
2. Gemini 3.5 Flash is generally available today via our agent-first development platform Google Antigravity the Gemini API in Google AI Studio and Android Studio.
3. Gemini 3.5 Flash delivers intelligence that rivals large flagship models at speeds you expect from the Flash series. It outperforms Gemini 3.1 Pro on challenging coding and agentic benchmarks like Terminal-Bench 2.1 (76.2%), GDPval-AA (1656 Elo) and MCP Atlas (83.6%).
4. Landing in the top-right quadrant of the Artificial Analysis index, 3.5 Flash delivers frontier-level intelligence at exceptional speed — proving you no longer have to trade quality for latency.
5. Gemini 3.5 Flash is ideal for tackling long-horizon agentic tasks. What used to take a developer days or an auditor weeks, 3.5 Flash can now help complete in a fraction of the time, often at less than half the cost of other frontier models. It rapidly plans, builds and iterates to solve real-world problems, whether it’s developing new applications, maintaining codebases or helping to prepare financial documents.
6. Building on the strong multimodal foundation of Gemini 3, 3.5 Flash generates richer, more interactive web UIs and graphics.
7. We’re also hard at work on Gemini 3.5 Pro. It’s already being used internally and we look forward to rolling it out next month.
Gemini Omni
8. Gemini Omni is our new model that can create anything from any input — starting with video. It combines Gemini’s intelligence with the best of our generative media models for a new level of world understanding, multimodality and editing. We’re starting with video outputs now, but over time, Gemini Omni will be able to generate any output from any input.
9. Gemini Omni combines an intuitive understanding of physics with Gemini's knowledge of history, science and culture, bridging the gap from photorealism to meaningful storytelling. It has an improved understanding of forces like gravity, kinetic energy and fluid dynamics, allowing you to create more realistic scenes.
10. Videos created with Omni include our imperceptible SynthID digital watermark. You can easily verify content through the Gemini app, Gemini in Chrome and Search.
11. You can reference anything. Gemini Omni turns any reference — image, text, video or audio — into a single, cohesive output. While only voice references will be supported for audio to start, we’ll roll out other types of audio inputs soon.
Gemini Omni in the Gemini app, Google Flow and YouTube
12. Gemini Omni Flash is rolling out now to all Google AI Plus, Pro and Ultra subscribers globally through the Gemini app and Google Flow. It’s also available today in YouTube Shorts Remix and the YouTube Create app to users (18+) at no cost.
13. Creating, remixing and editing a video is easier than ever. Gemini Omni in the Gemini app offers a fluid, conversational way to create and edit videos — like applying cinematic zooms or changing backgrounds with a simple prompt.
14. You can upload any photo or video from your camera roll, apply built-in templates with a single click and experience the magic without needing expensive equipment or technical jargon. You can even drop yourself into the action by creating a custom AI avatar that looks and sounds like you.
15. For creatives using Google Flow, Omni Flash allows you to blend real-world inspiration with generated content and iterate conversationally. Gemini Omni Flash also improves character consistency, meaning identity and voice are preserved across every scene.
16. And you can try the new Gemini Omni model at no cost in YouTube Shorts Remix, with an exciting new upgrade that lets you step directly into your favorite Shorts. Just select an eligible Short, prompt what you want changed — like adding yourself or any visual reference — and get a fresh new version with your edits.
Search, shop and discover exactly what you’re looking for
AI Search
17. AI Mode is our most powerful AI Search, and it has surpassed more than 1 billion monthly users. And today we’re upgrading the experience with Gemini 3.5 Flash as the new default model, globally.
18. We’re seeing incredible momentum, with AI Mode queries more than doubling every quarter since launch. And last quarter, we saw Search queries reach an all-time high.
19. Today we’re launching the biggest upgrade to our Search box in over 25 years — a new, intelligent Search box, now completely reimagined with AI. You can search using text, images, files, videos and Chrome tabs and Search reasons across them all. You’ll continue to get a range of results from Search, just like you do today.
20. We’re also making it even easier to continue the conversation with Search, bringing AI Overviews and AI Mode into one, seamless AI Search experience. You can flow effortlessly from your question, to a search results page with an AI Overview, to a follow-up in AI Mode, all with links to learn more. The new seamless AI Search experience is live today across desktop and mobile, worldwide.
Information agents
21. We’re entering the era of Search agents, where you can easily create, customize and manage multiple AI agents for your many tasks, right in Search. And we’re starting with information agents, which operate in the background 24/7 so you can stay updated on any topic, task or project that matters to you.
22. Your agent will intelligently look across everything on the web, like blogs, news sites and social posts, plus our freshest data, such as real-time info on finance, shopping and sports, to monitor for changes related to your specific question. And your agent will send you an intelligent, synthesized update, with the ability to take action. You can spin up multiple information agents in Search simultaneously to get updated and make progress on all the things that matter to you.
23. You’ll be able to put information agents to work for you this summer, rolling out first to Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers.
Generative UI and Antigravity in Search
24. With the power of Google Antigravity and the agentic coding capabilities of Gemini 3.5 Flash, Search can build you the ideal format exactly for your question, completely custom, on the fly.
25. You can get custom generative UI, with Search designing custom layouts, assembling components – like interactive visuals, tables, graphs or simulations – in real time – helping you better understand complicated topics. Generative UI with Antigravity is rolling out to Search this summer for everyone, free of charge.
26. Some projects aren’t one-off questions — they’re ongoing tasks, like planning a wedding or managing a home move. For these, Search can go a step further — helping you build entire custom experiences, like dashboards or trackers that you can continue coming back to. You can think of these like mini apps for your own specific tasks.
27. You’ll be able to build custom experiences like mini apps with Antigravity right in Search in the coming months, starting with subscribers.
Personal Intelligence
28. We’re expanding Personal Intelligence in AI Mode to more people in nearly 200 countries and territories across 98 languages — no subscription required.
29. With AI Mode in Search, you can securely connect apps like Gmail and Google Photos, and soon Google Calendar. Personal Intelligence was designed with transparency, choice and control at its core. You’re always in control — you choose if and when you want to connect apps like Gmail and Google Photos.
Universal Cart
30. We’re introducing Universal Cart: a truly intelligent shopping cart and your new hub for shopping on Google. You’ll be able to add things to your cart while you’re browsing Search, chatting with Gemini, watching YouTube or even reading your Gmail. The moment you add a product, your cart goes to work for you in the background. It finds deals and price drops, gives you insights on price history and alerts you when something comes back in stock.
31. The Universal Cart runs on our Gemini models, so your cart gets smarter as the models improve.
32. It also uses intelligent reasoning to anticipate your needs and help solve problems before they arise. It’ll proactively flag any product incompatibilities and suggest alternatives. And since the cart was built on Google Wallet, it understands your payment method perks, loyalty information and merchant offers so it can intelligently help you choose between payment methods.
33. Universal Commerce Protocol (UCP) makes checkout from your cart super smooth. For many of your favorite brands, you can check out right on Google in just a few taps with Google Pay, or transfer items straight to the retailer’s site and buy there.
34. We’re rolling out the Universal Cart across Search and the Gemini app this summer, with YouTube and Gmail to follow.
Streamline your day with the Gemini app
Gemini Spark
35. Gemini Spark is your 24/7 personal AI agent that helps you navigate your digital life, takes action on your behalf and is under your direction. It works in the background on your phone or laptop even while they’re turned off.
36. Spark runs on Gemini 3.5 and is built on the Google Antigravity platform. It operates autonomously, under your direction. You choose to turn it on and it’s designed to check with you before taking major actions on your behalf.
37. Gemini Spark is very early in its product journey, and we’re prioritizing safety in this first release — that’s why we’re rolling it out to trusted te...
(Pokracovani na webu)