OpenAI public policy agenda
OpenAI’s mission is to ensure that artificial general intelligence (AGI) benefits all of humanity. Our work is guided by five core principles that shape how we build AI and how we engage in public policy:
- Democratization. We will resist the potential of this technology to consolidate power in the hands of the few.
- Empowerment. We believe AI can empower everyone to achieve their goals, learn more, be happier and more fulfilled, and pursue their dream, and that society as a whole will benefit from this.
- Universal prosperity. We want a future where everyone can have an excellent life.
- Resilience. AI will introduce new risks, and we will work with other companies, ecosystems, governments, and society to solve them.
- Adaptability. We continue to believe the only way to meet the challenges of a very unpredictable future is to be prepared to update our positions as we learn more.
We believe AI has the potential to reshape how people work, learn, create, and participate in society, and that democracies will play an essential role in helping broaden access to opportunity, mitigate risks, and ensure people have real agency to shape the AI future they want. That’s why we’re committed to making our technology freely and safely accessible.
Our user base reflects that commitment: we have as many women as men using our tools, more users both under and over age 30 than any other AI platform, and more users earning under $100,000 than over $100,000—mirroring the broader global workforce.
That’s why OpenAI engages with governments and civil society around the world: to help policymakers understand our technology and its impacts, improve how governments function and deliver value to their constituents, expand the ability of people to participate in and benefit from democratic institutions, and shape policies that advance our mission of ensuring that AGI benefits all of humanity.
The following priorities reflect how we translate our mission and our principles into public policy. We support policies that help governments and society respond to the opportunities and challenges created by AI, mitigate risks, expand access to opportunity, and ensure people can meaningfully participate in and benefit from the AI economy. Together, these priorities are intended to help governments better serve their constituents while advancing our mission of ensuring that AGI benefits all of humanity. They represent some of the areas where we are most actively engaging today, but this list is not exhaustive. As AI evolves, we also expect our policy priorities and areas of engagement to continue to evolve as well.
We believe frontier AI safety is a national security and public safety issue, particularly for the most advanced general-purpose AI models, which can create risks related to cyber, chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) weapons. In the US, we support state efforts to align around common frameworks such as California SB 53(opens in a new window),the New York RAISE Act(opens in a new window), and Illinois SB 315(opens in a new window) which emphasize transparency, public reporting around catastrophic-risk evaluations and safety incidents, whistleblower protections, and enforceable accountability for developers that fail to meet their safety and security responsibilities. These state-level approaches can help establish harmonized standards that reduce fragmentation and create a path toward an eventual federal framework.
We also support Congressional action to establish a comprehensive federal framework that leverages the emerging consensus reflected in state frontier safety laws; strengthens the Center for AI Standards and Innovation (CAISI) as the US federal government's primary institution for frontier AI safety; and mobilizes a broader resilience plan across government to address the national security and public safety challenges posed by frontier AI. This framework should require CAISI to conduct evaluations of the most capable frontier models, direct CAISI to create an independent assessment ecosystem, and prioritize monitoring progress towards recursive self improvement (RSI). With a comprehensive federal framework in place, we support the preemption of state laws that seek to regulate the same frontier safety risks.
We also support the US federal government playing a leading role setting common international standards, and were the first US company to sign the EU AI Act Code of Practice. We were also among the first companies to enter into voluntary agreements with both the US CAISI and the UK AI Security Institute (UK AISI).
Looking to the future, we believe policymaker focus should begin considering more ambitious ideas(opens in a new window) such as model containment playbooks, incident reporting, or international governance bodies that facilitate coordination around frontier AI risks, safeguards, and security incidents.
On cybersecurity(opens in a new window) in particular, we support policies that expand trusted access to AI-powered cyber defense tools and stronger partnerships among governments, researchers, and industry to conduct evaluations, deepen information-sharing, and build resilience measures to strengthen cyber defense. We also support efforts to modernize outdated public-sector cybersecurity systems and are partnering with the U.S. government at the federal, state, and local levels, and with international partners as well.
We believe AI can help young people learn, create, and develop the skills and entrepreneurial mindset they will need to thrive in the future economy—provided it is deployed with strong safeguards and age-appropriate protections. Teens should have access to safe and trustworthy AI(opens in a new window) at home, at school, and as they prepare to join the workforce, and they should be protected from its potential harms. We support strong, enforceable, risk-based regulations for teen safety and frameworks that pair robust safeguards with transparency and tools that put families in control.
That includes requirements for privacy-preserving age assurance so companies can identify when a user is a minor and apply age-appropriate protections; regular youth safety risk assessments that identify foreseeable risks and drive proportionate safeguards before harm occurs; accessible parental controls that help families guide and support their teen’s experiences; and clear public youth safety policies that explain what protections are in place and how they evolve over time.
It also includes safeguards designed to address the risks teens may encounter when interacting with AI systems, including protections against harmful or age-inappropriate content, clear protocols for responding to serious safety situations, and safeguards against manipulative, or deceptive interactions. Crisis-response protocols should include in-service support, referrals to appropriate real-world resources such as 988 in the United States, and timely parental notifications when appropriate. Companies should also be required to protect teen's personal information, including by restricting targeted advertising to minors and the sale of personal data.
Finally, strong accountability mechanisms, including independent audits, are essential to ensure these protections are meaningful in practice. Audits should be underpinned by a set of common standards that allow for interoperable audits across jurisdictions. Legislative frameworks should include oversight and enforcement measures that allow governments to assess whether companies are effectively implementing youth safety safeguards, mitigating identified risks, and complying with youth safety and privacy obligations. We are proud to support the Parents and Kids Safe AI Coalition’s(opens in a new window) efforts to advance these principles and promote practical AI safeguards that protect young people while preserving their ability to learn from and benefit from AI.
Additionally, we support strong legal and technical protections against child sexual abuse and exploitation. This includes modernizing child protection laws to address the ways generative AI can be misused to create synthetic CSAM, digitally alter existing imagery, and scale grooming or exploitation activity. Policymakers should ensure CSAM statutes clearly cover AI-generated and digitally altered material, clarifying liability for intentional efforts to produce or solicit CSAM, and preserving strong enforcement authority for prosecutors and law enforcement. We also support provider reporting and coordination standards that improve the quality and actionability of CyberTipline reports, while reducing investigative burden and helping NCMEC and law enforcement act faster. Finally, companies should implement safety-by-design safeguards—including detection, refusal mechanisms, human oversight, and continuous monitoring—to interrupt exploitation attempts before harm occurs.
AI will increasingly shape how people learn, work, and participate in civic life. Educational institutions will play a critical role in building AI literacy(opens in a new window) and preparing students to navigate a world where AI is ubiquitous. We support policies that help students, teachers, families, and communities engage with AI safely, critically, and creatively, while ensuring educators remain central to classroom decision-making and set the pace for how AI is adopted in schools. That includes investments in AI literacy, strong core instruction in subjects like history, civics, math, science, literature, computer science, and career-technical education. It also includes teacher training and protected time for professional learning, workforce-aligned learning pathways, and expanded access to AI tools, broadband, devices, and educational resources for schools, libraries, and community institutions. We also support efforts to strengthen research into how AI impacts learning outcomes, student wellbeing, and educational ...
(Pokracovani na webu)