Create, edit and star in videos with two Google Vids updates
Today, we’re rolling out two new updates to Google Vids to make it easier than ever to create, edit and personalize your videos: Gemini Omni and personal avatars. Gemini Omni takes the hard work out of the editing process, so generating and refining high-quality clips is as easy as writing a simple prompt. And with personal avatars, you have an entirely new way to star in videos without setting up a camera.
Here’s a look at how these new tools transform video creation.
Generate videos from text and images
In the past year, you’ve created millions of videos in Google Vids to share your stories and bring your ideas to life. In February, we made the process simpler by rolling out Veo 3.1 to all users, helping everyone generate videos within Vids.
Now, we’re bringing Gemini Omni to Vids, so you can create and edit high-quality videos just by describing what you want to see. Start with a simple text prompt in natural language, and add image references — like a photo or a rough sketch — for more detail. Omni mixes your inputs to generate a video that matches your vision.
Chat to edit, step-by-step
Getting a video exactly right often requires a few tweaks after that first draft — and making those edits is now as easy as describing what you want to see. Whether you're refining a video you generated with Omni or a clip you shot on your phone, you can use everyday language to prompt Vids to swap backgrounds, fix lighting or add effects.
Because Omni supports step-by-step edits, you can now make changes to your videos without starting from scratch.
Star in videos, instantly
Want to send a quick video update or personalized shout-out, but don't have time to get camera-ready? With new personal avatars, you can create a digital avatar that looks and sounds like you. Just upload a selfie and a short voice recording. From there, type what you want to say and your avatar will deliver the message — no recording required.
Gemini Omni and personal avatars are available in Google Vids for Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers and Google Workspace business customers. Access to personal avatars is currently limited to users in certain regions who are 18 or older. Personal avatars are linked to a user’s Google Account and are restricted to the account holder’s likeness.
Create and share with transparency
We want you to feel confident sharing what you create. To ensure content transparency, every generated clip includes an invisible SynthID digital watermark. This allows people to verify that a video was created with AI, so you can explore your creativity and share your AI videos responsibly.
Come see what you can create with Gemini Omni and personal avatars in Google Vids.