New ways to create personalized images in the Gemini app
Personal Intelligence makes the Gemini app feel tailored to you, not just a generic tool that works the same for everyone. Today, we’re introducing new ways for Gemini to use your interests and preferences with Nano Banana 2 and Google Photos to make image generation — one of your favorite ways to use Gemini — feel deeply personal. This lets you create unique images more easily, so you can spend more time creating and less time explaining.
Powering your imagination
One of the biggest hurdles in AI image generation is finding the right prompt. Previously, to get a result that felt truly personal, you had to write long, detailed descriptions and manually upload a reference photo just to give Gemini the right context.
Now, Personal Intelligence gives Gemini an inherent understanding of your preferences from the start. By integrating this context directly with Nano Banana 2, Gemini can automatically fill in the blanks, grounding every creation in the things you care about most. And since this is built into how you normally use the Gemini app there’s no extra setup. If you’ve already linked your Google apps, that personal context is ready and waiting the moment you start creating images.
This removes the heavy lifting. Instead of writing out the intricate details of your life, you can use simple prompts like "Design my dream house" or "Create a picture of my desert island essentials" and the results will automatically reflect your specific tastes and lifestyle, gleaned from the Google apps you’ve connected to.
Starring you and your loved ones
A lot of your most significant moments live in your Google Photos library. By connecting your Google Photos library to Personal Intelligence, Gemini goes a step further than just understanding your interests. It can use actual images of you and your loved ones to guide the image generation process.
Since you can already organize and label groups of people and pets in your library, those labels provide the context that Gemini needs to make your images feel truly yours. Now your inner circle can become the stars of your images, whether you want a result that feels pulled straight from your life or one that takes your imagination a bit further.
With those labels in place, you can simply ask Gemini to “create a claymation image of me and my family enjoying our favorite activity” and Gemini can generate that specific image for you automatically. You can also experiment with different styles like watercolors, charcoal sketches or oil paintings. You can turn a quick idea into a custom creation, saving you the trouble of searching for, downloading and re-uploading files just to see a concept come to life.
Putting creative control in your hands
Because this is a brand-new experience, Gemini might not always pick the exact photo or detail you had in mind on the first try. To keep you in the driver’s seat, we’ve built in ways to refine your results. If the result isn’t quite right, you can simply tell Gemini what was incorrect and try again. You can also click the ‘+’ icon and select a different reference photo from your Google Photos library to try a new perspective. If you’re ever curious about how your context was applied, click on the Sources button, and it’ll show you which image was auto-selected to guide the creation. You can even ask Gemini directly for information on the attribution and sources used for that specific image.
Bringing personal details into your images shouldn't mean compromising on privacy, which is why our core commitments haven't changed. The Gemini app does not directly train its models on your private Google Photos library. We train on limited info, like specific prompts in Gemini and the model’s responses, to improve functionality over time. And connecting your Google apps to Gemini remains an opt-in experience that you can adjust in your settings at any time.
This new personalized image creation experience in the Gemini app is rolling out over the next few days to eligible 1 Google AI Plus, Pro and Ultra subscribers in the U.S., and we plan to bring this to Gemini in Chrome desktops and more users soon.
Give it a try when it hits your app — we’re looking forward to seeing how these tools help you spend less time prompting and more time creating.